now the Lord had said to Abram get out
of your country from your family and
from your father's house to a land that
I will show you I will make you a great
nation I will bless you and make your
name great and you shall be a blessing I
will bless those who bless you and I
will curse him who curses you and in you
all the families of the earth shall be
blessed so Abram departed as the Lord
had spoken to him and lot went with him
and Abram was 75 years old
when he departed from Aaron then Abram
took Sarah his wife and lot his
brother's son and all their possessions
that they had gathered and the people
whom they had acquired in Haran and they
departed to go to the land of Canaan so
they came to the land of Canaan Abram
passed through the land to the place of
Shechem as far as the terebinth tree of
mora and the Canaanites were then in the
land then the Lord appeared to Abram -
your descendants I will give this land
and there he built an altar to the Lord
who had appeared to him and he moved
from there to the mountain east of
Bethel and he pitched his tent with
Bethel on the west and aí on the east
there he built an altar to the Lord and
called on the name of the Lord
so Abraham journeyed going on still
toward the south now there was a famine
in the land and Abram went down to Egypt
to dwell there for the famine was severe
in the land and it came to pass when he
was close to entering Egypt that he said
to Sarai his wife indeed I know that you
are a woman of beautiful countenance
therefore it will happen when the
Egyptians see you that they will say
this is his wife and they will kill me
but they will let you live please say
you are my sister that it may be well
with me for your sake and that I may
live because of you so it was when Abram
came into Egypt that the Egyptians saw
the woman that she was very beautiful
the princes of Pharaoh also saw her and
commended her to Pharaoh and the woman
was taken to Pharaoh's house he treated
Abram well for her sake he had sheep
oxen male donkeys male and female
servants female donkeys and camels but
the Lord plagued Pharaoh and his house
with great plagues because of Sarah
Abraham's wife and Pharaoh called abram
and said what is this you have done to
me why did you not tell me that she was
your wife why did you say she is my
sister I might have taken her as my wife
now therefore here is your wife take her
and go your way
so Pharaoh commanded his men concerning
him and they sent him away with his wife
and all that he had